#summary changes to jjplot functions and semantics

= Introduction =
we hope to address a number of difficulties encountered with ggplot2, such as ordering a geom by a stat (e.g. ethnicity breakdowns sorted by frequency in country panel <stick in extra stuff here>


= One approach =
 Adding a special sort statistic.   In this framework, you could do:

jjplot( ~ bar() : sort(by = y) : table() + x)

  In effect, the sort statistic would be an identity statistic but it would add a special attr to the data frame.   This is convenient because right now scales are constructed when the first geom is encountered --- the input data frame is used to create the scale.  This routine would just have to look for this attr and do the sort then.

= Details =

Some of my treatise from previous emails to clean up
----
So i was thinking about ways we might be able to add ordering by
stats.  One solution might be to have y.order, x.order, grid.x.order,
grid.y.order parameters to the jjplot function.  you could either use
a factor, or if you want to use a stat to order, you can name the stat
/ geom.  here is one example.
spose we have our dataframe, which has a factor called country, which
we want to facet by, and then we want to order the bars by their
lengths. we might say something like:

  jjplot( ~ bar(width = 0.5) : ethnicCount(table()) + x,
facet.y=country, x.order.by=ethnicCount, data = df)

now if we have a more complex datatype that is returned by our stat
(e.g. quantile), we make choose to make the design decision that the
stat returns an indexable data structure (or perhaps just a
dataframe), and then in our stat naming, we can specify the column
returned by the stat to order by:

  jjplot(Income ~ box() : regionGroup(group(quantile(), by = region),
ordering=x) + region, data = df,
   fill = region, order.x.by=regionGroup)


the conflict semantics would be as such: named stats can't
have the same name as functions that are already defined in the
environment.  we do a hadley type thing, like use .'s to specify
special names, so in the examples below you would write .regionGroup
and .ethnicCount.  Whether or not this is mandatory or optional ( /
strongly suggested in the documentation) is a design choice.
----

Jon suggested that instead off adding extra syntax, add a 'name' filed to the stats instead of using them like functions.  
  
===notes===
Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages